Object Oriented Programming (CSE-207)

Summer 2022 Project Proposal

Team Name: Binary End

Student Name: ABDULLAH AL MAMUN

Student ID: 2118cse50238

Project Title: Project Presentation Software (PPS)

Category: Desktop Software

GitHub Repository: https://github.com/MAMUNdevBD/project-presentation-software

Description:
Project Presentation Software (PPS) is a python project for teacher/s or student/s for
presenting their project without any hassle. With this software student only need to submit
their presentation in PDF format, the PPS will do the rest like presenting documentation and
report in PDF or Video format, downloading code from github and present them by
compiling it automatically. If any libraries are required PPS will download them also.

PPS is a python project. For developing this project I have used some framework and
libraries other than the core python. For Graphical User Interface (GUI) I have used
“Tkinter”, a Python’s standard GUI framework. It is popular for its simplicity and graphical
user interface. It is open source and available under the Python License. One of the
advantages of choosing Tkinter is that since it comes by default, there is an abundance of
resources, both codes and reference books. Also with the community being old and active.

For PDF viewer and scraping data from the PDF file I have used a python library called
“PyPDF2”. It is a pure python library so it can run on any platform without any
platform-related dependencies on any external libraries.

For the video player I have used another python library called “python-vlc”. It’s an open
source python library which is also used in the most popular video player software named
“VLC media player”.

For managing GIT repository I have used “GitPython”. GitPython is a python library used to
interact with git repositories. It provides abstractions of git objects for easy access of
repository data, and additionally allows access to the git repository more directly using either
a pure python implementation, or the faster, but more resource intensive git command
implementation.

The Project Presentation Software (PPS) will be available in both Windows and Linux
Platforms.

Features:
When a PDF file or a link to the PDF file is added to the PPS it will read the PDF and will get
all the necessary resources needed for that project. There will be no need for additional
software like PDF reader, Video player, Python IDE for presenting the project. All the
necessary tools are included in the PPS.

